There's kind of a pushback in Silicon valley, a little bit against hard work.
Can you speak to the sort of the thing you admire to see the new guy
working so hard, that thing, what is the value of that thing in a company?
And see, this is like, just to be very Frank, it drives me nuts.
Like I saw this really funny video in Tech-Talk was on tech talk.
It was like, I'm taking a break from my mental health to work on my career,
but that was funny. Um, yeah, so there's like, oh,
it is kind of phrased that way. The opposite often. Right. Um, okay.
So a couple of things, uh, I,
uh,
I have worked so hard to do the things that I did like Mike
and I lost years of our lives, staying up late, figuring things out,
the stress that comes with the job.
I have a lot more gray hair now than I did back then.
It requires an enormous amount of work and most people aren't successful. Right.
But even the ones that do don't skate by, um,
I am okay if people choose not to work hard because I don't actually think
there's anything in this world that says you have to work hard. Um,
but I do think that great things require a lot of hard work.
So there's no way you can expect to change the world without working really
hard. And by the way, even changing the world, you know,
the folks that I respect the most have nudged the world in like a slight
direction, slight, very, very slight,
like even if Elan accomplishes all the things he wants to accomplish,
we will have, uh, have nudged the world in a slight direction,
but it requires enormous amount.
There was an interview with him where he was just like, he was interviewed,
I think, at the Tesla factory. And he was like, work is really hard.
This is actually unhealthy. And I can't recall the exact,
but he was like visibly shaken about how hard he had been working.
And he was like, this is bad. And unfortunately I think to have great outcomes,
you actually do need to work at like three standard deviations above the mean,
but there's nothing saying that people have.
Yeah, the thing is, but what I would argue,
this is my personal opinion is nobody has to do anything. First of all.
And second, they certainly don't have to work hard,
but I think hard work in a company
should be admired.
I do too.
And you should not feel like
you shouldn't feel good about yourself for not working hard.
Like it's just, so for example, I don't have to work out. I don't have to run,
I hate running, but like,
I certainly don't feel good if I don't run because I know for my health,
like there's certain values, I guess, is what I'm trying to get. Right.
There's certain values of the oven life.
It feels like there's certain values that companies should have and hard work is
one of the things. Um, I th I think that should be admired.
I often ask this kind of silly question, uh, just, just to get a sense of when,
like,
if I'm hiring and so on and just ask if they think it's better to work hard or
work smart, it was helpful for me to get a sense of people from that,
that, cause you think like the right both.
Was.
That the answers, the answer is both. I usually try not to give them that,
but sometimes I'll say both if that's an option,
but a lot of people kind of a surprising number will say work smart.
And they're usually people who don't know how to work smart.
And, uh, they're, they're literally just lazy and not just as there's two,
there's two effects behind that is one is laziness.
And the other is ego just when you're younger and you
say it's better to work smart. It means you think,
you know what it means to work smart at this early stage. To me,
people that say work hard or are both, they have the humility to understand,
like I'm going to have to work my off because I'm too dumb to know how to work
smart and people who are self-critical in this way. In some small amount,
you have to have some confidence, but you have, if you have humility,
that means you're going to actually eventually figure out what it means to work
smart. And then to actually be successful, you should do the book.
So I have a very particular take on this, which is that, um,
no one's forcing you to do anything. All choices have consequences.
So if you major in, I don't know,
theoretical literature, I don't even know if that's a major,
I'm just making something up.
That's supposed to regular literature.
Literature to think about like,
like theoretical Spanish lit from the 14th century,
like just make, make up your esoteric thing.
And then the number of people I went to Stanford with,
who get out in the world and I'm like, wait, what? I can't find a job.
Like no one wants a theoretical.
Like there are plenty of counterexamples of people who have majored in esoteric
things and gone on to be very successful. So I just want to be clear.
It's not about the major, but every choice you make, whether it's to have kids,
like, I love my children. It's so awesome to have two kids.
And it is so hard to work really hard. And also have kids is really hard.
And there's a reason why certain very successful people like don't have are not
successful, but people who run very,
very large companies of startups have chosen not to have kids for awhile or
choose not to like prioritize them. Everything's a choice. And like,
I choose to prioritize my children because I want to do that. Right.
So everything's a choice. Now, once you've made that choice,
I think it's important that the contract is clear, which is to say,
let's imagine you were joining a new startup.
It's important that that startup communicate that like the expectation is like,
we're all working really, really hard right now.
You don't have to join this startup. But like, if you do just know,
like you're S it's almost as if you join, I don't know, pick your, uh,
pick your, pick your like sports team. Like,
let's go back to the Yankees for a second. You want to join the Yankees,
but you don't really want to work that hard.
You don't really want to do batting practice or pitching practice or whatever
for your position. Right. Um,
that to me is wacko and that's actually the world that it feels like we live in
and tech sometimes where people both want to work for the Yankees.
Cause that pays a lot, but like,
don't actually want to work that hard that I don't fully understand,
because if you sign up for some of these things, just sign up for it,
but it's okay if you don't want to sign up for it.
There's so many wonderful careers in this world that don't require 80 hours a
week.
But when I read about companies going to like four day work weeks and stuff,
I just like, I chuckled because I can't get enough done with a seven day week.
I don't know how, and people will say, oh, you're just not working smart.
And it's like, no, I, I work pretty smart. I think in general, like I,
I wouldn't have gotten to this point if I hadn't like some amount of working
smart. And there is balance though. So I used to be like a pretty big cyclist.
I don't do it much anymore just because of kids and like prioritizing other
things. Right.
But one of the most important things to learn as a cyclist is to take a rest
day. But to me, and to cyclists,
like resting is a function of optimizing for the long run.
It's not like a thing that you do for its own merits. It's actually like,
if you don't rest your muscles, don't recover. And then you're just not as like,
you're not training as efficiently.
Probably the, the successful people I've known in terms of athletes.
They hate rest days, but they know they have to do it for the long-term.
They think their opposition is getting stronger and stronger in that that's the,
the feeling, but, you know, it's the right thing.
And usually you need a coach to help you.
Yeah, totally. So, I mean,
I use this thing called training peaks and it's interesting because it actually
mathematically shows like where you are on the curve and all this stuff,
but you have to re like you have to have that rest,
but it it's a function of going harder for longer. Again,
it's this reinforcement learning, like planning the aggregate and along,
but a lot of people will hide behind laziness by saying that they're trying to
optimize for the long run. And they're not, they're just not working very hard,
but again, you don't have to sign up for it. It's totally cool. Like,
I don't think less of people for like, not working super hard. It's just like,
don't sign up for things that require working super hard.
And some of that requires for the leadership to have the guts,
the boldness to communicate effectively at the very beginning. I mean,
sometimes I think most of the problems arise in the fact that the leadership has
kind of hesitant to, to communicate the, this the socially,
um, difficult truth of what it takes to be at this company.
So they kind of say, Hey, come, come with us. There's west snacks, you know,
but.
Limited vacation. And, you know, uh,
Ray at Bridgewater is always fascinating because, you know,
people it's been called like a cult on the outside or cultish. And,
but what's fascinating is like, they just don't on their principles.
They're like, listen, this is what it's like to work here.
We record every meeting.
We're like brutally honest and that's not going to feel right to everyone.
And if it doesn't feel Reggie, totally cool. Just go work somewhere else.
But if you work here, you are signing up for this. And that's,
that's been fascinating to me because it's honesty upfront.
It's a system in which you operate. Um, and if it's not for you,
like no one is forcing you to work there. Right.